---
title: 'Metrics on stable infinity-categories'
date: 2015-10-23
permalink: /posts/2012/08/Motivic-Spectra-1/
math: true
excerpt: 'In this post we will learn .'
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---


Metrics and Cauchy sequences
------
<div class="definition">
  <strong>Definition.</strong>
   A <em>good metric</em> on a stable $\inf$-category $\mc{C}$
consists of a collection $\mc{B}=\{B_i\}_{i\in\mb{N}}$ of full subcategories of $\mc{C}$ such that:
<ol>
    <li>$B_i * B_i = B_i$ for every $i \in \mathbb{N}$;</li>
    <li>$\Sigma B_{i+1} \cup B_{i+1} \cup \Sigma^{-1}B_{i+1} \subseteq B_i$ for every $i \in \mathbb{N}$.</li>
  </ol>
</div>



<div class="definition">
  <strong>Definition.</strong>
    Let $\mc{C}$ be a stable $\inf$-category with a metric $\mc{B}$. A <em>Cauchy sequence in $\mc{C}$</em> is a functor $a_*: \mb{N}^{\leq}\to \mc{C}$ such that for every $i\in \mb{N}$ and $j\in\mb{Z}$ there exists $M>0$ such that for every $m'>m\geq M$ the cofibre
    \[a_m\to a_{m'}\to a_{mm'}\]
	is such that $\susp^j a_{mm'}\in B_i$. 
</div>

Clearly, Cauchy sequences in the sense of \autoref{definition: Cauchy sequence stable} induce Cauchy sequences in Neeman sense. 

In what follows, we will need the 
<div class="lemma">
  <strong>Lemma.</strong>
    Let $\mc{C}$ be a stable $\inf$-category equipped with a metric $\mc{B}$. 
	Then the collection of Cauchy sequences in $\mc{C}$ is stable under cofibers and shifts.
</div>
<div class="proof">
  <strong>Proof</strong>
    For stability under cofibers, let us consider $a_*, b_*:\mb{N}^{\leq}\to\mc{C}$  two Cauchy sequences in $\mc{C}$ for the metric $\mc{B}$, together with $f_n:a_n\to b_n$ a collection of maps in $\mc{C}$ indexed by $n\in\mb{N}$. 
	Let $c_n$ be the cofibre of $f_n$. We wish to show that the assignment  $c_*:\mb{N}^{\leq}\to\mc{C}$, given by $n\mapsto c_n$, defines a Cauchy sequence. 
    
Fix $i\in\mb{N}$ and $j\in\mb{Z}$.
    Since $a_*$ and $b_*$ are Cauchy sequences, by considering $i+1\in\mb{N}$ and $j\in\mb{Z}$ we can find an $M>0$ such that the the $j$-suspension of cofibers $a_{mm'}$ and $b_{mm'}$ belong to $B_{i+1}$ for every $m'>m\geq M$, that is $\susp^ja_{mm'},\susp^j b_{mm'} \in B_{i+1}$. 
    Now the cofibre $c_{mm'}$ of $c_m\to c_{m'}$ fits in the cofibre sequence $a_{mm'}\to b_{mm'}\to c_{mm'}$, that is in the cofibre sequence $b_{mm'}\to c_{mm'}\to\susp a_{mm'}.$
    By suspending, we get the cofibre sequence
    \[\begin{tikzcd}[cramped,column sep=scriptsize]
	{\susp^j b_{mm'}} & {\susp^j c_{mm'}} & {\susp^{j+1} a_{mm'}}
	\arrow[from=1-1, to=1-2]
	\arrow[from=1-2, to=1-3]
    \end{tikzcd}\]
    Since $\susp^jb_{mm'}\in B_{i+1}$ and $\susp^{j+1} a_{mm'}\in \susp B_{i+1}$ are both contained in $B_{i+1}$, hence in $B_i$,  the triangle inequality implies that $\susp^jc_{mm'}\in B_{i}$.
	Stability under shifts is then immediate, since the zero object of $\mc{C}$ defines a Cauchy sequence $0_*:\mb{N}^{\leq}\to \mc{C}$. 
</div>

\subsection{Stability of $\L(\mc{C}), \CS(\C)$  and $\S(\C)$}
To proceed in the generalisation of \cite{Neeman-MetricsAndLimits}, let us consider the Yoneda embedding $\y:\C\to\PSh(\C)=\Fun(\C^\op,\Space)$ defined  by $x\mapsto \yo(x)= \Hom_{\C}(-,x)$. 
In order to obtain Neeman's result,  we think the Yoneda embedding as taking values in the ind-completion $\Ind(\C)$ of $\C$. If $\C$ is a stable $\inf$-category, then by \cite{Lurie-HA}, Corollary 1.1.3.7, the ind-completion $\Ind(\C)$ is itself a stable $\inf$-category. 

<div class="definition">
  <strong>Definition.</strong>
    Let $\mc{C}$ be a small stable $\inf$-category, and $\mc{B}$ a good metric on it. 
    <ol>
		<il> We define the <em><Cauchy-completion $\Li(\mc{C})$ of $\mc{C}$</em> as the full subcategory of $\Ind(\mc{C})$ spanned by those functors $A:\mc{C}^{\op}\to\Space$ which can be expressed as colimits $E\simeq \colim \yo(a_*)$ of a Cauchy sequence $a_*:\mb{N}^{\leq}\to \mc{C}$.</il>
		<il> We define  the \emph{category of compactly supported functors $\CS(\C)$ of $\C$} as the full subcategory of $\Ind(\C)$ spanned by those functors $E:\C^{\op}\to\Spc$  such that for every $j\in\Z$ there exists an integer $i>0$ such that $\pi_0\Hom_{\PSh(C)}(\y(\susp^jM_i), E)=0$.</il>
		<il>We let $\S(\C)= \Li(\C)\cap \CS(\C)$.</il>
	</ol>
</div>
Before proving that our definitions implies Neeman's ones on the triangulated category $h\C$, we prove that they are stable $\inf$-categories. 

\begin{theorem}\label{theorem: stability of limits}
The $\inf$-category $\Li(\C)$ is stable.
\end{theorem}
\begin{proof}
By \cite{Lurie-HA}, Lemma 1.1.3.3, to show that the full subcategory $\Li(\C)\subseteq \Ind(\C)$ is stable it is sufficient to check that it is pointed, it admits cofibers and that the suspension functor restricts to an equivalence $\susp : \Li(\C)\to\Li(\C)$. We do it step by step.
\begin{enumerate}
    \item First of all, let us show that $\Li(\C)$ is pointed. Let $0\in\C$ be a zero object and consider the constant Cauchy sequence $0_*:\N^{\leq}\to \C$. We claim that  
    \item We now show that $\Li(\C)$ is stable under cofibers. Let $f:A\to B$ be a map between limits, and consider its cofiber $C$ computed in $\Ind(\C)$.  By \cite{Lurie-HTT}, Proposition 5.3.5.15, the map $f:A\to B$ is obtained as the ind-completion of maps $f_i:a_i\to b_i$ in $\C$. By  \autoref{lemma: stability of Cauchy sequences}, the cofibers $c_i$ of $f_i$ define a Cauchy sequence $c_*:\N^{\leq}\to \C$. By \cite{Lurie-HTT}, Proposition 5.3.5.14, we have that $C\simeq \colim \y(c_*)$ exhibits the cofiber of $f$ as a colimit of a Cauchy sequence.
    \item To conclude, we only need to show that $\susp:\Li(\C)\to\Li(\C)$ is an equivalence. Being $\Li(\C)\subseteq\Ind(\C)$ a full subcategory,  the suspension is clearly fully faithful. Let us show that it is essentially surjective. Let $A\simeq\colim\y(a_*)$ be the colimit of a Cauchy sequence $a_*:\N^{\leq}\to \C$. 
    Consider the limit $\susp^{-1}A:= \colim \y(\susp^{-1}a_*$. By \autoref{lemma: stability of Cauchy sequences}, $\susp^{-1}A\in\Li(\C)$ is still a limit of a Cauchy sequence. 
    Since $\y:\C\to\Ind(\C)$ commutes with colimits by \cite{Lurie-HTT}, Proposition 5.3.5.14, we have that 
    \begin{align*}
        \susp \susp^{-1}A   &= \susp \colim\y(\susp^{-1}a_*)\\
                            &\simeq \colim \susp\y(\susp^{-1}a_*)\\
                            &\simeq \colim \y(\susp\susp^{-1}a_*)\simeq A.
    \end{align*}
\end{enumerate}
 This concludes the proof.
\end{proof}

In a complete similar fashion we have the
\begin{theorem}\label{theorem: stability of compactly supported}
The $\inf$-category $\CS(\C)$ is stable.
\end{theorem}
\begin{proof}
We apply again \cite{Lurie-HA}, Lemma 1.1.3.3. Let us spell every detail.
\begin{enumerate}
    \item It is clearly pointed, since the representable functor $y(0):\C^{\op}\to\Space$  is compactly supported. Indeed, if we fix $j\in\Z$, then for every integer $i>0$ we have that
    \[
    \pi_0\Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\y(\susp^jM_i),\y(0)) \simeq \pi_0\Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\y(\susp^jM_i),0)\simeq 0
    \]
    since $y:\C\to\Ind(\C)$ preserves limits. 
    \item Let $A,B:\C^{\op}\to\Space$ be two compactly supported presheaves, and let $f:A\to B$ be a map. To show that its cofiber $C$ is again compactly supported, let us fix $j\in\Z$ and find an integer $i>0$ such that 
    \[
    \pi_0\Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\y(\susp^jM_i),A)\simeq 0 \simeq \pi_0\Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\y(\susp^jM_i),B).
    \]
    Since the cofiber sequence $A\to B\to C$, which is also a fiber sequence by stability of $\Ind(\C)$, induces the fiber sequence of spaces
    \[\begin{tikzcd}[cramped,column sep=scriptsize]
	{\Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\y(\susp^jM_i),A)} & {\Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\y(\susp^jM_i),B)} & {\Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\y(\susp^jM_i),C)}
	\arrow[from=1-1, to=1-2]
	\arrow[from=1-2, to=1-3]
    \end{tikzcd}\]
    by the long exact sequence on homotopy groups we conclude that also \[\pi_0\Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\y(\susp^jM_i),C)\simeq 0.\] Hence $C\in\CS(\C)$.
    \item To show that the suspension functor $\susp :\CS(\C)\to\CS(\C)$ is an equivalence, let us immediately  note that it is fully-faithful, by fullness  of $\CS(\C)$ in $\Ind(\C)$. To show that it is essentially surjective, let us consider  a compactly supported presheaf  $A:\C^\op\to\Space$. We define $\susp^{-1}A:\C^\op\to\Space$ by $\susp^{-1}A(x)= A(\susp^{-1}x)$. Then it is immediate to check that $\susp\susp^{-1}A\simeq A$. So we are left to check that $\susp^{-1}A\in\CS(\C)$. Fix $j\in \Z$. 
    By definition of $A$, we  find an integer $i>0$ such that $\pi_0\Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\y(\susp^{j}M_i),A)\simeq 0$. However, since $y:\C\to\Ind(\C)$ preserves colimits, we have that 
    \begin{align*}
      \Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\y(\susp^{j}M_i),\susp^{-1}A)
        &\simeq \Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\susp^{-1}\y(\susp^{j+1}M_i),\susp^{-1}A)\\
        &\simeq \Hom_{\Ind(\C)}(\y(\susp^{j}M_i),A) 
    \end{align*}
   and so by taking $\pi_0$ we conclude.
\end{enumerate}
\end{proof}

As an immediate consequence of \autoref{theorem: stability of limits} and \autoref{theorem: stability of compactly supported} we get the
\begin{corollary}
The $\inf$-category $\S(\C)$ is stable.
\end{corollary}

As promised, we conclude this section by comparing our definition of Cauchy-completion $\Li(\C)$, $\CS(\C)$ and $\S(\C)$ with Neeman's one \cite{Neeman-MetricsAndLimits}.

